# Pizza-Ordering-System
## Digital Technologies & Hangarau Matihiko Level 2

**Standard title**: Use advanced programming techniques to develop a computer program

**Credits**: 6

**Resource title**: "Take Away" Ordering Program

**Resource reference**: Digital Technologies & Hangarau Matihiko 2.7B

Introduction/Kupu Arataki
This assessment activity requires you to develop and test a computer program to process phone orders for a take away pizza business, using advanced programming techniques. 

You will be assessed on how effectively you refine your program to ensure that the program:
- is a well-structured, logical response to the task
- has been comprehensively tested and debugged
- is flexible and robust.

You should consider these examples of ways of making a program flexible and robust:

- using actions, conditions, control structures and methods, functions, or procedures effectively
- checking input data for validity
- correctly handling expected, boundary and invalid cases
- using constants, variables and derived values in place of literals.

When developing your program, you must ensure your program:
- uses variables storing at least two types of data (e.g. numeric, text, Boolean)
- uses sequence, selection and iteration control structures
- takes input from a user, sensor(s), or other external source(s)
- produces output
- follows common conventions of the chosen programming language
- is documented with appropriate variable/module names and comments that describe the code function and behaviour.

Your program must use two or more advanced programming techniques.Examples of advanced programming techniques include writing code that:  - modifies data stored in collections (e.g. lists, arrays, dictionaries) 
- defines and manipulates multidimensional data in collections
- creates methods, functions, or procedures that use parameters and/or return values
- responds to events generated by a graphical user interface (GUI) 
- requires non-basic string manipulationuses functionality of additional non-core libraries.

## Task/Hei Mahi
## Scenario:
Dream Pizzas wants to computerise their phone orders. Specifically, they want to be able to enter customer details, pizza(s) ordered and pick-up or delivery requirements into a computer and have it display the delivery details, itemised order, and total cost. Phone orders generally consist of several kinds of pizza. 

Your program must meet the following specifications:
- The program contains options for the phone operator to specify whether the pizza order is for pickup or delivery. 
- If the order is for delivery:
  - the program should collect the customer’s name, address and phone number
  - a $3 delivery charge should be added to the total cost.
- If the order is for pick up:
  - the program should ask the phone operator to enter the customer’s name.
- The program should allow the phone operator to input how many pizzas the customer would like (maximum 5).
- A menu of at least 12 pizza names should be presented to the phone operator.
- Each pizza to be ordered should be selected from the choices available on the menu and the order information should be stored.
- The cost of the first seven (regular) pizzas on the menu is $8.50 and the rest are $5 more as they are gourmet pizzas.
- When the order is finished:
  - the names of ordered pizzas and their individual prices should be displayed
  - the total cost of the order,including any delivery charge,should be displayed
  - customer name should be displayedif the pizza is for delivery the address and phone number should be displayed.
- The program should allow the operator to cancel the order.
- After the order information has been displayed the program should be ready to accept another order or exit.

You need to think about:
- How will you program and present the menu and receive user input? Will you use a GUI and write event-handling code, or will you use a text-based menu and typed user input?
- How will you store your data? What variables will you require and what type of data will your variables store (e.g. text, numeric, Boolean)? Will you store data in collections (e.g.lists, arrays or dictionaries) to improve the structure, flexibility and robustness of your program?
- How will you structure your program? What procedural structure will your program require? Will you create functions/method/procedures to improve the structure, flexibility and robustness of your program? What parameters and/or return values would be required?
- How will you validate input and give feedback to the user? What methods will you use to restrict and/or validate input. When will the program display output to the user?

Development:
- You should break the program up into components. Think about what information each component will need to do its job, and what information it will pass on to the rest of the program. Code, test and debug each component separately. As you complete each section, you should save your code with a new version number. 

**Note**: To test a program in a comprehensive way, you should think about how you will test the program for various cases such as expected, boundary and unexpected input. It is often useful to note down what you want to test and what you expect to happen, as well as what actually happened. Testing can be demonstrated by making a brief screencast showing the program being comprehensively tested. If desired, you can take screenshots of your screencast and annotate them.
- Ensure that you comment your code appropriately, as you develop it and use variable/module names and comments that describe code function and behaviour.
- Ensure that you have followed conventions for the programming language of your choice and that your program is a well-structured, logical response to the task. 
- You should ensure that your code is robust and that it handles expected, boundary and invalid cases.
- Wherever possible you should try to ensure that your code has a flexible structure to allow for continued development.
